Space exploration - why would Humanity need it and at what cost?

Space exploration is not simply a sign of humanity’s hubris in trying to push the boundaries a little further. It is also the source of many scientific discoveries that can actually improve our lives.

Space exploration has provided answers to some fundamental questions about the origins of the Earth and humanity’s place in the universe. By studying the solar system, for example, we have gained a better understanding of phenomena such as gravity, the magnetosphere, solar planets geology evolution and atmosphere and fluid dynamics.

But still there is a question - is the space exploration's cost fair.
First of all, knowledge about that what's happening there can save lot's of lifes. Because asteroids, comets, black holes, stars and everything else what is in space don’t care about us.
Our solar system has calmed down a lot since the early eons, but there are still uncountable big astronomical objects out there that could smack into the planet and really ruin your day. It’s happened several times in the past, each one causing a mass extinction. It’s not a matter of if another large asteroid hits Earth, but when. And space exploration helps us to know it.
My second argument is that we all know that one's humanity will need to look for the new planet, by the reason of what we are doing with our one. Colonizing other bodies in the solar system is a way to create a “backup” of humanity that will survive no matter what happens to Earth. So, we should know the most as we can about space by that time.
But there are something that we can call a cost.
Directing funds into space exploration and space-related ventures will deprive other efforts (such as addressing climate change, alleviating poverty, feeding the hungry, etc.) of vital resources.
But there is "either/or" reasoning, with no place for "and". There is no basis for thinking that money spent on scientific endeavors in space means there will be less money from addressing problems here at home.
Yes, space explorations cost a fortune, but they worth that.